Now we're ready to start
To see every rules, we're going to take a game in progress
In the Monopoly every player plays one after the other
During your turn you can do multiple actions
Now let's start with the most basic action...
Roll the dices!
In the Monopoly we play with 2 dices
Let's give it a try
Oh, a double nice play
A chance square
Now you must draw a chance card
Get out jail free a useful one
It's one of the only cards that you can keep and exchange
You can use it well, to get out of jail...
You've made a double so you can roll the dices again
Another double you're lucky...
For the moment anyway let's look what's going to happen
A community chest!
Well it's like a chance square
You must draw a community chest card
You just have to pay now
Do you remember? double so roll the dices
But, be careful another double and...
You will see
Oh, a double
In the Monopoly if you do 3 doubles in a row you're going to jail
So have a nice trip!
By the way, click on this button to end your turn
\#
OK player 2 you saw player 1
So, roll the dices
Double one
You maybe saw it
But, you passed the starting square
Every time you pass on this square you get M200
Except if you are like player 1
If you pass this square to go to jail you don't get anything
You're on a property own by nobody
So, you can buy it, let's check this
Every property has a rent
A price
A name
A color
A house price
And a mortgage price
Here we're only interested by the price and the rent
If you buy this property every players that stop on it must pay you the rent
And even if you're in jail!
Let's test and buy it you have enough money
Well done now you're an owner
Ah and you made a double remember so...
Got it? yes roll the dices
Double again
The second brown property
Hum buy it we will start the funny things
You now own all the properties of a same color
You can now build some houses on it
A house price change with the property
You can only build houses in a precise order
The rule is the following if you want to build a house on a property, the other properties of the same color have to have at least the same number of houses
For example, if you want to build a second house on a property the other properties of the same color must have at least 1 house
If you have 4 houses on a property you can build a hotel
The hotel will take the place of your 4 houses so you will lose them
There is a 32 houses and 12 hotels available, if many players want to buy the last ones there will be a bid for it
Come on let's build a house
Perfect and don't forget double so roll the dices
You stopped on jail, but don't worry if you stopped on jail because of a simple roll
You are in a simple visit so you can finish you're turn
\#
Player 3 your turn
Roll
Double again you're all lucky today !
Anyway, you're on a train station
A train station like a property can be buy
And like properties if another player stops on it, he will pay you a rent
BUT
You can't build any houses on it
The rent price depends of the number of train stations that you own
Just buy it you have the money to do so
And double so roll the dices
Another train station what a luck, buy it to increase the rent of both
Perfect by the way, if you stop on a property own by nobody you CAN buy it
But, if you don't want to then the bank must start a bid with all the players that want to participate to buy the property
That's all, now you can end your turn
\#
Player 4 roll the dices and don't forget...
For the money and the monopoly !
A company, interesting
Like you can see there are 2 companies on the board
Companies are also properties so you can buy them
But, like a train station you can't build anything on it
The rent working differently on those
The players that stop on it has to pay 4 times the result of his dice roll if you only have one company and
10 times! if you have the 2 companies
Buy it, I have an idea you will thank me later
You now have one company, but player 3 have the other one
No problem you can exchange them
Player 3 you have 2 train stations want one more?
We need it in order to continue so just say yes
And that's it the exchange is a success congratulations to both of you
Oh, by the way, you can't give something to someone if he doesn't give you anything
Got it? OK now you can end your turn
\#
Player 5 let's roll
Double not bad
But, a train station if you remember correctly then you know you must pay the rent to player 3
Player 3 I told you it was a good exchange
This property belongs to another player so you can't do anything interesting
So just roll the dice again
Free parking this is a unique square and when you stop on it then...
nothing happens no really nothing just relax
And end your turn of course
\#
Player 6 roll and good luck
Luxury square well you will have to pay
There are 2 taxes squares on the board, and you can't buy it
So, the rent goes to the bank
But, wait you can't pay...
You will have to mortgage!
When you mortgage a property you first need to sell all the houses on all the properties of the same color and this property
The bank will just give you the half of the total price of your houses
Then the bank gives you the mortgage price of the property
But, you won't be able to use this property anymore so no more rent or build on it
Later you will be able to pay the bank back, but we will see that later
Now you just have to end you're turn
\#
Player 7 you start in jail tough luck
But, don't worry there is multiple ways to get out of jail
The first way is making a double with the dices
The second is by paying a fine of M50 that you will have to pay if you haven't made a double in the 3 turns following your arresting
And the last one is by using a get out of jail free card
And this is perfect because you have one
Excellent now roll the dices
A property what a luck you already own the 2 others pink properties so why don't you buy this one
Perfect now don't build anything on it
Why?
Because if you own all the properties of a same color and if you don't have any house on it...
The rent is multiplied by 2!
Not bad?
But, this doesn't work if one of the properties is mortgage
Talking about mortgage you can pay back the bank for one of your properties
For that you must pay the mortgage rent and 10% of the mortgage price to the bank
And that's it, you can use your property again
You can now end your turn
\#
Player 8 let's put an end to this tutorial!
A pink property you will have to pay the rent
...
...
Wait, but you can't, and you don't have any more property that you can mortgage
Well sorry player 8, but you're ruined!
So, you must give everything you have to player 7 except your houses because the bank will buy them to half of their price
This money will then be given to the player 7
Game over for you, the game end when there is only one player left
Player 7 you could have gotten a mortgage property so you should have to pay the 10% of the mortgage price right now
Then you could choose to pay back the bank now or later
But, be careful! You should still pay the 10% when you will pay the bank back
\#
Well that's all for this tutorial so many things can happen in only one turn
Now I let you try a real game!
Yeah, I know you will miss me but never forget...
For the money and the monopoly!